---
title: "Two-step aberration correction: application to transcranial histotripsy"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6560/ac72ed
date: 2022-06-10
venue: 'Physics in Medicine & Biology'
paperurl: 'http://ninglu-ultrasound.github.io/files/Pub3_Lu_2022_Phys._Med._Biol._67_125009.pdf'  
citation: 'N. Lu, et al. (2022). &quot;Two-step aberration correction: application to transcranial histotripsy.&quot; <i>Physics in Medicine & Biology</i>. 67(12).'
---
Abstract: Objective: Phase aberration correction is essential in transcranial histotripsy to compensate for focal distortion caused by the heterogeneity of the intact skull bone. This paper improves the 2-step aberration correction (AC) method that has been previously presented and develops an AC workflow that fits in the clinical environment, in which the computed tomography (CT)-based analytical approach was first implemented, followed by a cavitation-based approach using the shockwaves from the acoustic cavitation emission (ACE). Approach: A 700 kHz, 360-element hemispherical transducer array capable of transmit-and-receive on all channels was used to transcranially generate histotripsy-induced cavitation and acquire ACE shockwaves. For CT-AC, two ray-tracing models were investigated: a forward ray-tracing model (transducer-to-focus) in the open-source software Kranion, and an in-house backward ray-tracing model (focus-to-transducer) accounting for refraction and the sound speed variation in skulls. Co-registration was achieved by aligning the skull CT data to the skull surface map reconstructed using the acoustic pulse-echo method. For ACE-AC, the ACE signals from the collapses of generated bubbles were aligned by cross-correlation to estimate the corresponding time delays. Main results: The performance of the 2-step method was tested with 3 excised human calvariums placed at 2 different locations in the transducer array. Results showed that the 2-step AC achieved 90 ± 7% peak focal pressure compared to the gold standard hydrophone correction. It also reduced the focal shift from 0.84 to 0.30 mm and the focal volume from 10.6 to 2.0 mm3 on average compared to the no AC cases. Significance: The 2-step AC yielded better refocusing compared to either CT-AC or ACE-AC alone and can be implemented in real-time for transcranial histotripsy brain therapy.

